---
title:  xPack Build Box v3.4 released

summary: "Version **3.4** is a new release; it adds Support for Apple Silicon."

version: 3.4

date: 2021-12-16 12:00:00 +0200

comments: true

categories:
  - releases
  - xbb

tags:
  - releases
  - xbb
  - build
  - box

---

The xPack Build Box (XBB) is a build environment intended for reproducible builds.

## Supported platforms

XBB supports building binaries for the following platforms:

- x64 GNU/Linux
- arm64/arm GNU/Linux
- x64 macOS
- x64 Windows

Windows binaries are built on Linux, using mingw-w64.

## Compatibility

To allow the resulting binaries to run on as many existing systems
as possible, the XBB build environments are on purpose based on older
GNU/Linux and macOS releases:

- x64/arm64/arm GNU/Linux: Ubuntu 12.04 with **GLIBC 2.27**; this
should provide compatibility with:
  - Ubuntu 18 or later
  - Debian 10 or later
  - RedHat 8 or later
  - Fedora 29 or later
  - any other distributions using GLIBC 2.15 or higher
- x86/x64 Windows: Windows 7 with the new Universal C Runtime
  ([UCRT](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows-c0514201-7fe6-95a3-b0a5-287930f3560c))
- x64 macOS: 10.13; this should provide compatibility with macOS 10.13 or later
- arm64 macOS 11.6; this should provide compatibility with macOS 11.6 or later


### GLIBC version

To find out the GLIBC version on a given GNU/Linux distribution, use:

```sh
ldd --version
```

## Tools versions

In version 3.3, the main tools provided by XBB were updated to:

- GCC 11.2.0
- binutils 2.36.1
- mingw-w64 9.0.0
- m4 1.4.19
- gawk 5.1.1
- sed 4.8
- autoconf 2.71
- automake 1.16.5
- make 4.3
- perl 5.34.0
- cmake 3.21.4
- python 3.9.9
- ninja 1.10.2
- wine 6.17

For the full list of available tools, see the
[common-versions-xbb-source.sh](https://github.com/xpack/xpack-build-box/blob/master/helper/common-versions-xbb-source.sh) file.

## Linux Docker images

On GNU/Linux, the production XBB consists of multiple Docker images,
in pairs of 32/64-bit, for each platform and version.

The images are published on
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/ilegeul/ubuntu)
(pulling can be done anonymously, pushing requires login).

Intel GNU/Linux:

- `ilegeul/ubuntu:amd64-18.04-xbb-v3.4`

```console
$ docker images
REPOSITORY       TAG                              IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
ilegeul/ubuntu   amd64-18.04-xbb-v3.4             ace5ae2e98e5   4 weeks ago    5.11GB
```

The images were created on a Debian 10
running on an Intel NUC.

Arm GNU/Linux:

- `ilegeul/ubuntu:arm64v8-18.04-xbb-v3.4`
- `ilegeul/ubuntu:arm32v7-18.04-xbb-v3.4`

```console
REPOSITORY            TAG                                IMAGE ID       CREATED         SIZE
ilegeul/ubuntu        arm64v8-18.04-xbb-v3.4             4e7f14f6c886   3 weeks ago     3.29GB
ilegeul/ubuntu        arm32v7-18.04-xbb-v3.4             a3718a8e6d0f   3 weeks ago     2.92GB
```

The arm64v8 image was created on a 64-bit Raspberry Pi OS
running on a Raspberry CM4 with 8 GB RAM. The arm32v7 image was built on a
32-bit Raspberry Pi OS with 4 GB RAM.

## macOS

When running on macOS, the build scripts cannot use Docker, since there
are no macOS Docker images; instead,
a custom set of tools is expected in a specific folder
(like `${HOME}/.local/xbb`),
which includes the same tools as packed in the Docker images.

### Command Line Tools

As usual with macOS, the compiler and other development tools are not
packed in the base system and need to be installed separately as part of the
**Command Line Tools** package, available from
[Apple](https://developer.apple.com).

The XBB binaries expect the CLT binary tools to be present in a
fixed location, which is:

- `/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin`

## TeX

All platforms include an instance of the 2018 TeX Live tools.

## Links

- [Home page]({{ site.baseurl }}/xbb/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/xpack/xpack-build-box/)
