---
title:  xPack Build Box v5.0.0 released

summary: "Version **5.0.0** is a new release; it no longer uses monolithic Docker images, but splits the dependencies amongst multiple binary xPacks."

version: 5.0.0

date: 2023-02-07 19:13:00 +0200

comments: true

categories:
  - releases
  - xbb

tags:
  - releases
  - xbb
  - build
  - box

---

The xPack Build Box (XBB) is a build environment intended for reproducible builds.

Version 5.0.0 represents a **major milestone**
for the xPack project, since it is the first **self-sustained** release,
which allows to build new binary xPacks using previous xPacks,
and does not require any custom Docker images, or other compiled tools.

## Tools versions

In version 5.0.0, the main tools are no longer part of the core XBB,
but are installed as binary xPacks, so
each project can have its own selection of tools from the
wide range of available binary xPacks.

## Supported platforms

XBB supports building binaries for the following platforms:

- x64 GNU/Linux
- arm64/arm GNU/Linux
- x64 macOS
- x64 Windows

Windows binaries are built on GNU/Linux, using **mingw-w64-gcc**.

## Compatibility

To allow the resulting binaries to run on as many existing systems
as possible, the XBB build environments are on purpose based on older
GNU/Linux and macOS releases:

- x64/arm64/arm GNU/Linux: Ubuntu 12.04 with **GLIBC 2.27**; this
should provide compatibility with:
  - Ubuntu 18 or later
  - Debian 10 or later
  - RedHat 8 or later
  - Fedora 29 or later
  - any other distributions using GLIBC 2.15 or higher
- x64 Windows: Windows 7 with the new Universal C Runtime
  ([UCRT](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/update-for-universal-c-runtime-in-windows-c0514201-7fe6-95a3-b0a5-287930f3560c))
- x64 macOS: 10.13; this should provide compatibility with macOS 10.13 or later
- arm64 macOS 11.6; this should provide compatibility with macOS 11.6 or later

### GLIBC version

To find out the GLIBC version on a given GNU/Linux distribution, use:

```sh
ldd --version
```

## Linux Docker images

On GNU/Linux, the production XBB consists of several Docker images.

The images are published on
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/ilegeul/ubuntu)
(pulling can be done anonymously, pushing requires login).

Intel GNU/Linux:

- `ilegeul/ubuntu:amd64-18.04-xbb-v5.0.0`

```console
$ docker images
REPOSITORY       TAG                      IMAGE ID       CREATED         SIZE
ilegeul/ubuntu   amd64-18.04-xbb-v5.0.0   5974fda9979c   3 months ago    908MB
```

The images were created on a Debian 10
running on an GIGABYTE B550M DS3H with AMD Ryzen 5 5600G.

Arm GNU/Linux:

- `ilegeul/ubuntu:arm64v8-18.04-xbb-v5.0.0`
- `ilegeul/ubuntu:arm32v7-18.04-xbb-v5.0.0`

```console
REPOSITORY       TAG                        IMAGE ID       CREATED         SIZE
ilegeul/ubuntu   arm64v8-18.04-xbb-v5.0.0   baa7d6c9797e   3 months ago    758MB
ilegeul/ubuntu   arm32v7-18.04-xbb-v5.0.0   b071935af982   3 months ago    657MB
```

The arm64v8 image was created on a Raspberry Pi4 OS 64-bit running on a RPi4
with 8 GB RAM. The arm32v7 image was built on a Raspberry Pi OS 32-bit with
running on a RPi4 with 4 GB RAM.

## macOS

When running on macOS, the build scripts cannot use Docker, since there
are no macOS Docker images; instead,
a standard system and the Command Line Tools are required.

### Command Line Tools

As usual with macOS, the compiler and other development tools are not
packed in the base system and need to be installed separately as part of the
**Command Line Tools** package, available from
[Apple](https://developer.apple.com).

The XBB binaries expect the CLT binary tools to be present in a
fixed location, which is:

- `/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin`

## TeX

The dependency to TeX was removed.

## Links

- [Home page]({{ site.baseurl }}/xbb/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/xpack/xpack-build-box/)
