---
title: About (outdated)
permalink: /xcdl/about/

comments: true

date: 2015-09-30 17:13:00 +0000

---

## About this site

This site is generated by Jekyll and is currently hosted by GitHub.

## Project history

### Prehistory

The first contact with configuration definitions languages happened in the early 2000, when I used eCos in an embedded project. Since the GUI based eCos configuration tools were mainly Windows tools, and at that time I was a hard core command line Unix user, the configuration framework was more of a nuisance than a useful technology.

The situation changed when I started work on the µOS++, a C++ embedded OS. Although the design was influenced by eCos, the eCos CDL was considered too eCos specific  to be useful in other projects, not to mention that Tcl was already a bit too rusty, even then.

However, after using µOS++ for several years, it became clear that managing large collections of sources without an automated tool is more and more difficult.

### December 11th, 2012

After several studies the idea of a Python implementation of a CDL proved feasible, and a rapid prototyping version in Python was implemented.

To give this new project a new home, a SourceForge forge project was created, basically a Git repository and two ticketing systems, one for bugs and one for feature requests, complemented by a Wiki.

### January 13th, 2013

After the successful rapid prototyping phase, the SRS wiki page was written, followed by the XCDL Definition Reference for all objects and properties.

This was followed by a more or less exhaustive implementation, and on January 13th the XCDL framework produced the first functional run of a build generated with the configMakefile tool, the conversions test for the Debug class.

### April 27th, 2014

In early 2014, ARM released a preliminary version of CMSIS Pack, as a *"a delivery mechanism for software components, device parameters, and evaluation board support"*. Although far from eCos and aiming at different purposes, the CMSIS Pack was considered an important step forward, and discussions with the CMSIS team; on April 14th an invitation to join the internal CMSIS Google Group was received.

On April 27th, a branch was created in the GNU ARM Eclipse repository, and work on an Eclipse plug-in to manage XCDL/CMSIS packs was started.

The first goal was to write a plug-in to manage the existing [Keil CMSIS packages](https://www.keil.com/pack), to be used as a base for future XCDL specific extensions. The release candidate of the packs manager plug-in was made available for review on June 16th, 2014.

### June 23rd, 2014

A more or less complete set of specifications, based on *The eCos Component Writer’s Guide*, with multiple changes, was put together on the XCDL MediaWiki site.

### August 25th, 2015

The project wiki was migrated to GitHub Wiki. The initial version is still available from [SourceForge](https://xcdl.sourceforge.net/wiki/).

### Oct 15th, 2015

The GitHub Wiki pages were migrated to [GitHub Pages](https://xcdl.github.io).
