---
title: The xPack Windows Build Tools
permalink: /dev-tools/windows-build-tools/

summary: "A Windows binary distribution of GNU Make, to be used with Eclipse Embedded CDT."

comments: true
keywords: windows-build-tools

date: 2020-07-14 16:26:00 +0300

redirect_from:
  - /windows-build-tools/

---

## Quicklinks

If you already know the general facts about the xPack Windows Build Tools, you can
directly skip to the desired pages.

User pages:

- [install]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev-tools/windows-build-tools/install/)
- [support]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev-tools/windows-build-tools/support/)
- [releases]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev-tools/windows-build-tools/releases/)

Developer & maintainer pages:

- [GitHub](https://github.com/xpack-dev-tools/windows-build-tools-xpack/)
- [How to build](https://github.com/xpack-dev-tools/windows-build-tools-xpack/blob/xpack/README-BUILD.md)
- [How to publish](https://github.com/xpack-dev-tools/windows-build-tools-xpack/blob/xpack/README-RELEASE.md)

## Overview

The **xPack Windows Build Tools** is a Windows specific package,
customised for the requirements of the Eclipse CDT managed build
projects. It includes a recent version of **GNU make** and a recent
version of **BusyBox**, which provides a convenient implementation
for `sh`/`rm`/`echo`.

{% include note.html content="Traditionally Windows systems do not
provide any standard make programs, and, without one, building Eclipse
managed projects is not possible (using the internal builder is highly
discouraged, since it is no longer supported)." %}

## Benefits

The main advantages of using the **xPack Windows Build Tools** are:

- use a POSIX shell, which improves the behaviour
of **make**, by properly processing the POSIX paths generated by Eclipse,
including names containing spaces
- overcome the **8192 characters/line** limit of usual Windows build
environments; by not using the Microsoft `cmd.exe`, **make** is able to process
larger command lines, allowing to build large projects, with very large
number of files
- support for **64-bit Windows**; apparently this not only makes usage
safer, by avoiding the DLL32 mess, but also slightly improves build
performances.

For those interested in technical details, if make does not find a `sh`
in the path, it falls back to using the Microsoft `cmd.exe` when launching
sub-processes. As with other Windows implementations, compared to Unix
shells, `cmd.exe` is severely restricted, also impacting the make correct
behaviour.

The Eclipse Embedded CDT managed build plug-in generally **auto-detects**
the latest build tools version, by searching several designated folders,
and defaults to using it. If you need to use a different version, update
the Global Tools Paths (or Workspace Tools Paths) in C/C++ → Build preferences.

All binaries are self-contained, they include all required libraries,
and can be installed in any location.

## Forward vs. Back-slashes

Eclipse is a more or POSIX compliant environment, which favours the use of
standard forward slashed for path separators, and all automatically
generated make files use this convention. The version of the `make` and
`sh` commands packed by **xPack Windows Build Tools** also favour
POSIX standard forward slashes.

As such, the use of Windows specific backslash path separators cannot be
properly supported, and attempts to build manually written Windows
specific make files might fail.

## Compatibility

`make` is actually **GNU make**, so it is can process standard make files.

## Install

The details of installing the **xPack Windows Build Tools** on various
platforms are presented in the separate
[install]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev-tools/windows-build-tools/install/) page.

## Documentation

- none included, use https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/

## Support

For the various support options, please read the separate
[support]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev-tools/windows-build-tools/support/) page.

## Change log

The release and change log is available in the repository
[`CHANGELOG.md`](https://github.com/xpack-dev-tools/windows-build-tools-xpack/blob/xpack/CHANGELOG.md) file.

## Build details

For those interested in building the binaries, please read the
[How to build](https://github.com/xpack-dev-tools/windows-build-tools-xpack/blob/xpack/README-BUILD.md)
page.
However, the ultimate source for details are the build scripts themselves,
all available from the 
[`windows-build-tools-xpack.git/scripts`](https://github.com/xpack-dev-tools/windows-build-tools-xpack/tree/xpack/scripts/)
folder.

## Releases

See the [releases]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev-tools/windows-build-tools/releases/) pages.
